Use case header (#1909)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/api-testing/use-cases/dynamic-header.md

---
id: dynamic-header

> title: Creating Dynamic Header

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Creating Dynamic Headers
```

> sidebar_label: Creating Dynamic Header

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Creating Dynamic Headers
```

> description: How to generate a dynamic header 

Author: ```suggestion
description: How to generate a dynamic header
```

---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

Most APIs have only one response format, either JSON or XML. But what should you do when an API endpoint can return either JSON or XML? You could write two different tests, one for each response type, but you would be repeating a good amount of code in both tests.

> Sauce Labs API Testing allows you to test both, using the same test for almost all test cases. Only in some cases, you will need to add extra logic to allow the platform to distinguish between the two formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sauce Labs API Testing allows you to test both, using the same test for almost all test cases. There are a few cases where you will need to add extra logic to allow the platform to distinguish between the two formats. 
```

> Sauce Labs API Testing allows you to test both, using the same test for almost all test cases. There are a few cases where you will need to add extra logic to allow the platform to distinguish between the two formats. 

Author: ```suggestion
Sauce Labs API Testing allows you to test both, using the same test for almost all test cases. In a few cases, you will need to add extra logic to allow the platform to distinguish between the two formats.
```

- Familiarity with the [API Testing Composer](/api-testing/composer/).

## Example: Sending Different Header Based on the Response Type

Consider a scenario where you need to pass the Accept value in the Header that is `application/json` if you are testing the JSON and `application/xml` if you are testing the XML. Usually in this case, you should make two different calls, to be able to pass the different values in the header.

The image shows the above scenario which requires setting up two separate calls. This solution is not particularly adherent to the Don't Repeat Yourself (DRY) rule of programming.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/api-testing/use-cases/accept_header.png')} alt="two different calls" />

The solution is the following:

1. In the **Input Set** add the different formats as variables.

   <img src={useBaseUrl('img/api-testing/use-cases/inputSets.png')} alt="two different input sets" />

2. Remove one call and add the format variable in the **Mode** input.

   <img src={useBaseUrl('img/api-testing/use-cases/varFormat.png')} alt="mode is dynamic" />

> 3. The header is still static at this point. You need to turn it into a dynamic one that changes to suit the data type of the API you are testing. Above the I/O operation, add the **Set (Variable)** component that will return the appropriate value.

Author: ```suggestion
3. The header is still static. You need to turn it into a dynamic one that changes to suit the data type of the API you are testing. Above the I/O operation, add the **Set (Variable)** component that will return the appropriate value.
```
